Hi

Thankyou for your postcard and email. I hope you enjoyed the News Quiz
and the Motor Show.  Let me know when the A4000 is back online, and I
will send a version of the family tree program for you to try. It cannot
yet save or print or some other things, but it should give you an idea
of how it will work, and I would be interested to hear your opinions
about it.

Thankyou for the tuition fees cheque, it arrived last Monday,
and I paid it in ok.  My loan cheque had not arrived when I paid my
fees, and I have had a letter from the loans company saying Devon cc
have not sent them my details yet. I will try again sometime this week.

We did an interesting lab yesterday - we were given a microphone and
headphones, and had to connect them up via some chips to a simple
computer, and then record sound from the microphone, store it in the
computer, then play it back.  When we had that working we had to add
effects to it such as an echo, or playing it backwards. It was quite
strange listening to it played backwards with an echo at the same time!


Double click on !Roots to load it. Click on the iconbar icon, and two
windows will open, the main window <Untitled> and the unlinked people
window. Drag a person from the unlinked window to the main window. Drag
another person from the unlinked window onto the first person in the
main window. This will marry them. To give them a child, drag a person
from the unlinked window to the marriage (the = between the two people).
To give someone parents, (the someone must be married) drag an unlined
person to the someone, a small window open, then drag the second parent
to this small window. To create a second marriage, drag an unlinked
person to a person who is already married, then when the small window
opens, click on the second marriage button. (If you marry the first
person of the original marriage then it will work, but currently if you
marry the second person of the original marriage then you will get an
error message and the program will exit.)

To remove someone from the main window, click menu over them,then select
the unlink item from the person submenu. This will put them back in the
unlinked window. You can only unlink children who are not married, or
both parents of a single child. To add a person, click menu over the
unlinked window, then select the add item from the person submenu. To
delete a person, click menu over them, then select the delete item from
the person submenu. You can only add or delete from the unlinked window.

When you add someone to the main window, the computer will guess at
where to put them, but inevitably it will sometimes get it wrong. To
move a person, drag them to their new position. To move several people,
select them all by clicking select on the first and adjust on the rest,
or drag a box over all of them. Then drag one of the selected people and
all the selected people will move. When you drag someone, they will
sometimes 'jump,' this is when they are a certain distance from other
people, so it is easy to line people up accuratly spaced.  If several
people are selected then they will all jump but only when the person you
are actually dragging jumps. If you are dragging a person, and all their
siblings are also selected, then they will also jump when the siblings
are centered under their parents marriage. When you drag a marriage it
will jump when it is centered above it's children.

To edit a person or marriage, double click on it, and a window will open
allowing you to change their name, sex etc (when you click ok in this
window, it will not currently always update the screen to reflect the
change, until the relevent part of the screen is redrawn)

To create a tree of all the descendents, click menu over the person you
want to show the descendents of, and select new view from the menu. then
click on the descendents icon, then ok. A descendents window will then
open. You cannot move people or add people to this descendents window,
but it will update itself when you change the main window.

Hopefull the rest is self explanatory. If a menu item is greyed out, it
either means that you cannot do that action to that particular person
(eg you cannot delete a person who is in the main window) or I have not
written that part of the program (eg saving or printing). Some things
such as redrawing the screen take longer than they will in the final
version. The appearance of each person (ie the font used, which details
to display and whether to draw a box, etc.) can be configured, but I
will not explain how to here.

Have fun!